

# Akash Network - Support Special Interest Group (SIG) - Meeting #3

## Agenda

- Participants will look at issues in [Akash Support Repo](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues). 
- Artur will lead triaging issues, and discussion of implementation for issue fixes.
- Artur and Anil will lead discussion putting severity on issues. 
- Participants can have an open discussion of any other issues or support related items on Akash Network.

## Meeting Details

- Date: Wednesday, March 1, 2023
- Time: 09:00 AM PT (Pacific Time)
- [Recording](https://j2rdtpoj2npbikc5lnio4cfijfynujs4y3cgro7jskodr3c2asya.arweave.net/TqI5vcnTXhQoXVtQ7gioSXDaJlzGxGi76ZKcOOxaBLA)
- [Transcript](#transcript)

# Participants

- Anil Murty
- Artur Troian
- George Pro
- Joao Luna
- Rodrigo Rochin
- Tyler Wright


# Notes

- Artur walked throught the support repo. Anil recommended we focus on issues that are newer than 2 weeks. 
- Artur talked about [issue #73](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/73) and all of the PRs in this issue. This issue remains open. By end of next week, we should have more information on this issue. This is ***"sev1"***.
- Artur talked about issues #74 and issue #75. Andrey is working on these issues. Artur tagged these as "Docs".
- Artur talked about [issue #76](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/76). This is a bug so this is "sev2". This issue needs investigation. Overclock Labs team will not look at it until after GPU testing, but it does need to be addressed. 
- Artur talked about [issue #77](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/77). All of the plugins are going to come from a single repo. The priorirty is "P2". This would be attached to switching to Cosmos SDK 46.
- Anil asked if this is something we should add to the list for the following upgrade? Artur answered we should focus on current upgrade, and then figure that out. 
- Artur talked about a new [issue #77](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/78). This involves updating templates.
- Anil wants to delete redundant issues, and then mark "P1" for most important issues. Artur migrated issues, and is still in the process of migrating the rest of the issues. Andrey needs to help with that.
- Luna requested to close [issue #5](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/5). This has been fixed in his mind.
- Anil had the group marks issues as "P1" and "P2" for new features and "sev1" and "sev2" for bug fixes. 1's are highest priority. 
- [Issue #73](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/73) is ***"P1"***.
- [Issue #22](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/22) needs to have a versions added for Keplr, Ledger, Akash, etc.
- [Issue #23](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/23) is ***"sev1"***. This needs to be done before network upgrade.
- [Issue #10](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/10) is a "sev2". This needs to be done by Andrey. 
- [Issue #71](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/71) is a "P2". 
- [Issue #59](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/59) is a weird issue. We cannot fix this, until CosmosSDK updates a dependency. This is ***"sev1"***.
- Artur talked about [issue #4](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/4). We tried this last year, but it did not work. We need to fix this issue, test it, and try again. 
- Anil asked if this work was connect to the Akt 2.0 work? The work is related but not blocked by this. 
- Anil mentioned that the parameters may change for inflation calculator.
- Luna talked about a [PR](https://github.com/akash-network/provider/pull/86) for cert manager support. The PR adds new annotations. Artur will look at this PR, and merge soon. 

### Highest Priority Issues

- [Issue #23](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/23)
- [Issue #59](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/59)
- [issue #73](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/73)

### Action Items

- Artur is going to put more description into [issue #77](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/77). 
- Anil going to help with templates for [issue #78](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/78).
- Anil to check on [issue #5](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/5) before closing.
- Artur will investigate and update strategy for [issue #59](https://github.com/akash-network/support/issues/59).
- Artur is going to update the readmes for the Node and Provider repo for people looking to get started. Anil created an issue for this.
- Artur will look at [PR](https://github.com/akash-network/provider/pull/86).


# **Transcript**

_This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created._

Tyler Wright: Okay, welcome all to the six support biweekly. This meeting is to go through the support repo triage issues and then find contributors that might be able to help solve some of these issues on their cost network Artur and Anil lead these conversation every two weeks out of the last SIG Support. There was a number of things that were action items and you can see the previous Transcript meeting notes, participants and you can watch the recording a number of issues.

Tyler Wright:  Were triage and added to network upgrade of those issues. Again, one has been taken out and you can track those in the SIG chain. But here's a, look at the action items from last from two weeks ago that we're continuing to monitor. But without further ado, I think the agenda for this meeting is as follows. With continuing, for the participants to look at the cost, support repo which Artur will lead us in shortly, and then continue to triage any new issues, or look at again, issues that have been triage previously to see the status and then Artur and Neil will lead a discussion. Putting severity on some of the issues, which is one of the biggest action items out of the last biweekly, six support meeting and then if anybody has any other

Tyler Wright:  Things that they want to share. Again, if they're not here in this meeting, feel free to share them in the sick. Support discord channel between these biweekly meetings or create a new issue can again, share and discord. So without further ado, I'm going to take notes but again, I'll pass off to Archer to share his screen and quickly walk through some of the and if there's any new issues and then again, start putting severity on some of the ones that we've already kind of triaged.

Artur Troian: All right, we have green.

Artur Troian:  Alrighty, Yeah, we've got a few, a new one. It will start probably from most important. Which is.

Artur Troian: Sorry, I didn't hear it.

Anil Murty: you know, just saying that anyone that says two weeks or two weeks ago, we can skip those because we had a meeting two weeks ago,

Artur Troian:  Oh, yeah, yeah, some of them, though. Like network, operating need to discuss it. Anyways, there are people So yeah, the presentation to the another great and there are a bunch of issues. Sorry, pull requests mentioned using that. Um, so this, this is a big, one goes a couple important features. One of them is the GPU. I knew parameters for the proposal, spam filtering, as well, as minimum for their mission. So all those and along with the newer part API, almost things have been actually done.

Artur Troian:  We have published Akash API. First, I'd say beta release and the newer cost mode is based on that. We will be starting a testing for all of those. Changes that mentioned in the issue. sometime next week and say, so this issues remains open Actually, yes I did myself and I really hope that I don't next week we will have at least preliminary results that upgrades go. Well and we don't have any breakage Any questions to that?

Artur Troian: okay, on A metal bees here,â€¦

Anil Murty: no, something

Artur Troian: G. Okay, what is that?

Artur Troian: Okay. That's the documentation of that. I believe it is. Related. Yeah,â€¦

Anil Murty: You will talk stag.

Artur Troian: this is mainly for our home charts. I believe, Andrew is already working in it. So we have a sinus

00:05:00

Anil Murty: You can just target dogs. If there is one.

Artur Troian:  Yeah.

Anil Murty:  I'm just gonna,

Artur Troian:  Yeah, was the one.

Artur Troian:  Let's do something. Pleasant. Ation.

Artur Troian:  Okay, that one is to go. Rotate certificates.

Anil Murty: You probably.

Artur Troian: um, yeah, I don't think Maybe some scription. But yeah, that's stupid dogs. So basically, I believe the certificates it is in this certificates. They expire Every other every year. So, brothers needs to need to remember that. They may have big,â€¦

Anil Murty:  Yep.

Artur Troian: if you say Don't do that.

Artur Troian: May just come online. Yeah, well yeah.

Anil Murty: My obviously.

Artur Troian: So we will be investigating that. We will do some priority unite Let's put a few one and that will be a car provider report.

Anil Murty: Just for.

Anil Murty: Yeah. Okay,â€¦

Artur Troian: All this box.

Artur Troian: Sorry. This book.

Anil Murty: so we're on the same page, I thought

Artur Troian:  Yeah, that's yeah. Sorry, it's a mess now. Yeah, we will need to investigate this Unless someone does it, you know, in the parallel? And finds the solution or root cause of the issues. We won't be taking it until The GPU testing. So, this couple weeks for now.

Artur Troian:  But yeah, that that needs to be addressed.

Artur Troian: All right. Now this one.

Anil Murty: You.

Artur Troian: Yes. So this is the big change and I didn't put any description yet but and I don't know when we actually going to Change it actually.

Artur Troian:  Yeah, level is correct. So right now, we use of we buy some Christmas decay for 25 points X. And the product generation was. A little bit masses there. So they had to use like own purchase to the compilers and this was the force. Um, and the repo, and the tool, and to give the use to the product generation. We're just like all across the different repositories in 46.x versus decay. They find a combined it all together in one reaper called Customers Google Pro. So we have to migrate to it at the point when we do migration to because, so how we gonna look that we pretty much strip all the

Artur Troian:  Progress tools like from region network. And other can remember right now and switch to the three, possibly all of the Plugins like Gold Cosmos for the compiler and other stuff gonna come from the single repository, which is customers Google Prora. And we will be switching to buff tool to generate to do the code generation for us. so, that will be uniform with what customers decay has a

Artur Troian:  version 46.x. When I don't yet. But yeah, that's different actually important. Then you will need to do that. As soon as we can, that will require the migration obviously need the network, right? As there are significant store changes, As well as migration to the parameters, so that will be yet Bk for us. Okay, so the priority, well, the priorities somewhere actually important but always, I'll put P2 for now because we cannot take it.

Artur Troian:  That's pretty much it. And what I need, I need to put a more description into the actual issue.

Anil Murty: Here at a quick question.

Artur Troian:  Um, yeah.

Anil Murty: So this doesn't have any dependencies with the other cosmos as DK, migrations we're doing in the cup coming network, upgrade, you think.

Artur Troian: No, so we still we still will be applying 45 because specifically the remain on 45.x. So, and this Google proverb was introduced in both the, this particular repository was introduced in 46. So it doesn't work for us. This actually what happened when I was doing Akash API. And going through the cosmosis decay andâ€¦

00:10:00

Anil Murty: You.

Artur Troian: notice, they have they migrated at 46.x and that means we need to do it at some point. And I just put the issues of it, don't forget.

Anil Murty:  So is there something that we should just add to the list of things for the upgrade following? The. Upcoming upgrade.

Artur Troian: Oh, I don't know. It's only Balance on our plans. So, I would say Let's focus on the upcoming upgrades, which is 0.24. Let's make sure that it goes.

Anil Murty: Okay.

Artur Troian: Well, you don't have any issues because, you know, just in case you have an issues, we're gonna have to do upgrade it up to that, fix all the issues, right? And once we roll out great 0.24 and we happens that then we can start thinking on you know, switching to custom Suzuki 46.

Anil Murty: Okay.

Artur Troian:  All right. Yeah, this was just created today. Pretty much we used to have Progress. The plates in occasional river and It is to be refactor. To current realities. And same place. The eye and provider. Um, I'm someone thinking about the uniforms and played but is there any, you know, position on suggestions that I'm happy to consider them. But basically, we need to Great template that. Is not.

Anil Murty: So this is a task for replicating, the templates that exist in the existing. Repositories to these new ones.

Artur Troian: So, I don't know if you need to replicate it, I'll just show you what I mean. So we have this Template. And you just needs to be, you know, rewards because we have a science is, now is a group instead of dedicated people and just this checklist Frankly saying,â€¦

Anil Murty: Yeah.

Artur Troian: Um, yeah, you just needs to be updated to, you know, there's an issues for people for each progress and so forth. So, and I actually want to have Github actions, check. That, you know, somewhat validates that the support repo has issues for the PR. And so that will help tremendously for us.

Anil Murty:  Okay. I could have some time.

Artur Troian:  Okay. Okay, yeah. Do you want me to offend this through? Okay.

Anil Murty:  Sure, I might bug you for what? What? You had in mind a little bit.

Artur Troian:  Okay.

Artur Troian:  Variety. I think that's that's it for now.

Anil Murty:  For the rest of them. One idea I had was if we can just like look through this list and just check any ones that we think are redundant or you know, there is like there's a test or something, we can delete that one, just remove any ones that are just, you know, things that I don't need it. And then we can just like Instead of going to every single issue we can just like look at this list, select the ones that we think so. I think are Ones and just mark them. P1s from here rather than going to each. What do you think?

Artur Troian: um, Well, I did frankly. So here's the issue of Existing issues from not repo up to support. Not all of them. I close. Probably helping that all the existing and we have like 15 new issues here. Well, they not knew they used to be in laundry before. Um and I sort of did my path on assigning them already. So really you see like quite a lot of them are.

Anil Murty: Yep. I see.

Artur Troian: Yeah so for example this one andâ€¦

Anil Murty:  Yeah.

Artur Troian: you have to just you know go through and close it. So I think let's do is the next. Let's just job is the respective people because the mainly,

Artur Troian:  My amount of leafs are open by actually Andy. So I want him to just go through and either validate them or just close them. And for the next support meeting, we will be have way more pin list and just go from that.

00:15:00

Anil Murty: Okay.

Artur Troian: Alrighty. Number 19.

Anil Murty:  Let me delete the test one. The number 19 at the bottom of your page view.

Artur Troian: This one. Oh yeah,â€¦

Anil Murty:  Yeah.

Artur Troian: sorry, that was

Joao Luna: Yeah, there's there's another one. I think we can close. I just want to see make sense. Should go to the bottom. The number five.

Artur Troian: The numbers.

Artur Troian:  Okay.

Joao Luna: That one.

Joao Luna: Yeah, I think that service doesn't exist anymore. So, I don't think we it needs to support arm because

Artur Troian:  Okay.

Joao Luna: It's, I'm

Anil Murty: You want to take a note inside? I'll make a note in number five. Just so indeed is not surprised by I'll make.

Joao Luna:  Yeah, we we don't use we don't use the provider restarts. It will set anymore. I think it was fixed a couple of weeks ago.

Anil Murty: I'm just going to make a note here and then close it.

Artur Troian: Okay, all right.

Artur Troian:  Okay, any questions?

Artur Troian:  Okay, cool. Yeah.

Anil Murty: But we really assign the like, the 0.24.0 and any issues that are contained within it. Those should be like p1s, right? They're all features that we know we have got to do so we can just check like 24.

Artur Troian:  Well, so So issues number 24.

Anil Murty: No, no. Go back. Yeah, so Issues 73 which is the network upgrade 024. Let's get.

Artur Troian:  Mm-hmm.

Anil Murty: This is obviously P1. Right.

Artur Troian:  Yeah, yeah, well actually that's actually P0 because then It will.

Anil Murty:  Right. I mean I I think of P0 more as, you know, burning as in like the

Artur Troian:  Okay. Yeah, good. Okay. Um yeah, it'll be one.

Anil Murty:  And then any issues within it. Should also be like the once again.

Artur Troian: Well, PR employees P2, I would say. and,

Anil Murty:  Sure.

Anil Murty:  and I think there's like, The migrate node to comment, B, f t, and so feature enforce 5% like number 18 issue. This one, this one I guess is like, P2. Now, with this point,

Artur Troian:  Yeah, yeah that's a bit too. We kind of that actually come along with the On Go Go. Proto, which is the number that's actually bring them 37. And

Anil Murty: You.

Anil Murty:  Yep.

Artur Troian:  All right, we have some green clothes.

Anil Murty:  Okay, the issues we created for the network upgrade. So I guess like a number 18. And first 5%. Minimum that what?

Artur Troian:  Yeah, actually is those. Yeah that relates

Anil Murty:  You want?

Artur Troian: Okay. Oh yeah, we have reference tell already.

Anil Murty:  And in the yep.

Artur Troian:  Well.

Artur Troian:  Okay. Those.

Artur Troian:  that's, That's, I would say, as for that it's like Not, you know, Yeah that's actually really good example of but issues. Um, you know, I have no idea what the coupler versions with the customers and so that's that's really good example of, you know, we need a template, really good template for the sport. Yeah.

Anil Murty: Which issuesome equitable, I'm just going to leave a comment in there so we're looking for your volume. Please. Update with. The player version and what else?

Artur Troian:  I mean yeah Akash version and you know the led what the funeral that version on the ledger is the other two money things to be you know? checked frankly, so let's put it as to

Artur Troian:  For now, that one is To do to do. Yeah, this is probably some linking issues. So you need to I need to check it. Yeah, that that's actually part of it. If that the issues we need to fix it before the network, right? So let's put us to say yes, one, um, I'll find myself just in case.

00:20:00

Artur Troian:  and,

Anil Murty:  before the upcoming network upgrade you in,

Artur Troian:  yeah, yeah, so if you have some major issues we need to make sure The fixed it. Um,

Tyler Wright: Sorry Artur,â€¦

Artur Troian:  yeah.

Tyler Wright: what issues that with that 23 that we have to do before the

Artur Troian:  Once again.

Tyler Wright:  Yeah, right here. The sixth have keys. Add my wild ledger. Was that it? Okay, thank you.

Artur Troian: Oh yeah, yeah.

Anil Murty: I'm just gonna add a reference inside the network operating.

Artur Troian:  So that one is just, you know, we will put that as a p2. So it is a self to for now. It actually means more in four made.

Artur Troian:  I mean it's technically verified so you don't need a notification. Just nothing we can do at the moment right now. It's just did. Hold the device.

Anil Murty: Now, we can leave here and we can leave the idea ones for when andâ€¦

Artur Troian:  Yeah.

Anil Murty: easier. I don't if you can just click the Buy, the ones that you created you might be easier.

Artur Troian:  Yes.

Anil Murty:  Very cool much easier.

Artur Troian:  All right, they said parables. Yeah, I think.

Artur Troian:  Yeah, I honest. But it would be two on that one. I don't know if he actually need to work on either I will I need to just go back through that awesome myself and Check if he to do is that. Anything now yeah, that one is weird. So

Artur Troian:  We use Mglas obviously to authenticate tenants of the providers vice versa and we generate our own certificates. So some of the things that We use to generate the certificated in Go 16. I think they actually is good. They are. I think going to be removed pretty soon. I had. I found really good implementation to replace this thing. However, it uses one library that is used by Cosmos SDK. And those version just traffic drastically different. So we pretty much cannot use the dependence to two different versions of the same dependencies.

Artur Troian: And that's pretty much means. We cannot fix it until cosmosis. Decay updates the dependency, I think? It in 4646.x. I will double check on it. So that is actually somewhat. So one For us, I will needâ€¦

Anil Murty: If?

Artur Troian: I will verify it will verify versions and I will put exact package. That causes this issue. I have Actually. Sort of like it PR but commit in my history for that issue. So, I will verify all those information on the description here. On the plans is that but yeah, that needs to be fixed runs on. And I saying That, is it right? Oh no. Um yeah this one is

Artur Troian:  It's like this issues, you know you're now so a year ago introduced inflation calculator and it didn't work. So the best basically what was doing dynamically changing inflation. Parameters, depending on the supply how much tokens are wanted the current Block time and so forth didn't work. So we rolled it back to static and we still need we need to implement it as that. Feel more requirement for upgrade. I'm not sure yet. But that needs to be fixed. So, I'll put the two for now.

00:25:00

Artur Troian:  Yeah.

Artur Troian: Oh, that's actually good question. No. It's not. for, you know, directly we still can change inflation parameters through governance proposals It just means that. Is this change is the inflation dynamic inflation calculator.

Anil Murty: If?

Artur Troian: It was changing inflation, dynamically depending on the Total supply of tokens which is 3 million. Something Current amount of. Minted Tokens, current amount of bonded to current presentation of bonded tokens. I mean believe block time I need to check it so you know those parameters are wearing by the time and you know every six months listen, meet proposal to change the impression problems. um, so we want to talk And yeah because the Akat 2.0 is somewhat related to it but it's not block weighted.

Anil Murty: Yeah, we basically what I was thinking was more, you know, there's a good chance as part of the Akt 2.0 work. We might change or you know, if there is consensus we might end up changing the

Anil Murty: The basically the time period over, which all the tokens get minted. To reduce it to some smaller period. So that we, you know, basically get more rewards that we can use in the community pool.

Artur Troian: You know, I mean it's worth it.

Anil Murty: So I felt like it was kind of related

Artur Troian: We still can change those parameters, just through the proposal. So it's stopped. I would say this, this Calculator is nice to have but it doesn't, you know, limit us. Brain means.

Anil Murty: Yep. Got it.

Artur Troian: um, Yeah, I think that will be it. The questions.

Anil Murty:  I guess what is one question for me? Is I know you committed to working on the documentation for or updating the Documentation or the README is for the node and provider reports for people getting started. Do you want to create an issue for that? Or are you good without

Artur Troian: Um, yeah, I don't. Yeah, for that. Let me do the next. The first one is I need to.

Artur Troian: Finish the Local environment documentation. We also need issues for that. so people can see how they create, you know, local environment, the machines and after that, I will, We'll see if you know what information we need to put. For example, the provider report, and so forth. Because for example, Scott Determinus job on Documenting behavior of the provider. And I feel like we don't need that much description in the Writing report now.

Anil Murty: and,

Artur Troian: Um, we have such, we have pretty much description for Akash API. And I don't think we need anything there.

Anil Murty: If so do you want me to just create an issue for creating? Okay.

Artur Troian:  Yeah. Yeah.

Anil Murty:  That's anybody. Else has any questions?

Tyler Wright: Yeah. Are there any other issues that are worth talking about today with this group?

Tyler Wright:  Cool. I've got some action items down here. Obviously with issue Number 77 being one of the highest priorities and we'll get working on that. Is there anything else again worth talking about before? Next biweekly, six support meeting.

00:30:00

Joao Luna: I do, I'm not sure if this fits in here, as in like, it's part of the support group, but I do have a PR that's, Ready to be closed. I guess it's just missing permissions for executing the pipelines. Know how, how Arthur?

Artur Troian: Is it? This is one for certificates for manager.

Joao Luna:  It's the desert manager support. Yes.

Artur Troian: Yeah. So We will hold on, merging that until the finished migration to the Apache API.

Tyler Wright: If you.

Joao Luna:  Okay.

Artur Troian: So He's the thing, right?

Joao Luna: I mean I we might we might be confused. Not the, the TL extermination at the pod level. It's really just the it's at the new PR I made after which enables the cluster-wide issues on provided clusters. It doesn't, it doesn't do anything that messes with the cash API.

Artur Troian: Okay, is it is it is it wrong?

Artur Troian: That changes as new annotations in the ports?

Joao Luna: yes, if that's the in the new annotations based on the configuration that comes from the home chart orâ€¦

Artur Troian: Okay, yeah, I'll give the check.

Joao Luna: environment variables,

Artur Troian: Yeah, I'll give you the check.

Artur Troian: Either this, I'll try to obvious that either this week or Sometime next week.

Joao Luna: Okay. Yeah, sure. I mean,â€¦

Artur Troian: Yeah, because I will be

Joao Luna: I've synced, I think with Boss, the only thing missing you, I mean it's approved. The only thing is just that I don't have the permissions to merge because there needs the checks need to run and the checks can only run.

Artur Troian: Yeah, I did deliberately I I saw this PR. I don't manage the delivery right now just for the migration things andâ€¦

Anil Murty: Better.

Joao Luna: Okay, okay.

Artur Troian: I just want to hear the thing, right? The validation of the you know, studio called Bias is on me at the stage and I just want to be confident that Whatever goes in. I know that it doesn't cause issues or it causes the issues. But I once again, no, which one And another thing is, once again, I will go through that because we will be having the GPU testing phase soon and I want to make sure that it doesn't affect it. So yeah, I saw you are.

Joao Luna:  Okay. Yeah.

Artur Troian: Yeah and I also merge it as soon as you know we come down that we this is right.

Joao Luna:  Great great. Okay. Yeah.

Tyler Wright: All right, if there's nothing else then again, um, I'll make sure that the transcript and recording or made available to those that couldn't make it today. But folks can search issues by severity by date and by a number of other tags, docs, repos, etc. What kind of repo their attached to etc. So, thank you all for the time today. Thank you. Our turning Neil for leading this to no other questions and I'll let you all go.

Anil Murty: Thanks sir. Thanks everyone.

Tyler Wright:  All right. Thank you. All right.

Joao Luna: and,

Artur Troian: Okay.

Meeting ended after 00:33:16 ðŸ‘‹
